SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported by us    | EOL                | Supported by distribution                                                         |
| ------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.9.72  | :heavy_check_mark: |                    | :white_check_mark: Debian 11 **backports**, Debian 12, Ubuntu 24.04 LTS           |
| 0.9.70  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.68  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.66  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.64  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Debian 11                                                      |
| 0.9.62  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 20.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.60  | :x:                | 29 Dec 2019        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.58  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.56  | :x:                | 27 Jan 2019        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.54  | :x:                | 18 Sep 2018        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.52  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.50  | :x:                | 12 Dec 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.48  | :x:                | 09 Sep 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.46  | :x:                | 12 Jun 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.44  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.42  | :x:                | 22 Oct 2016        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.40  | :x:                | 09 Sep 2016        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.38  | :x:                | 31 May 2016        |                                                                                   |
| <0.9.38 | :x:                | Before 05 Feb 2016 |                                                                                   |

## Security vulnerabilities

We take security bugs very seriously.

If you believe you have found one, please report it to:

* <netblue30@protonmail.com>

Commit message:

docs(SECURITY.md): add message below table regarding distribution versions

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

| Version | Supported by us    | EOL                | Supported by distribution                                                         |
| ------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.9.72  | :heavy_check_mark: |                    | :white_check_mark: Debian 11 **backports**, Debian 12, Ubuntu 24.04 LTS           |
| 0.9.70  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.68  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.66  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.64  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Debian 11                                                      |
| 0.9.62  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 20.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.60  | :x:                | 29 Dec 2019        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.58  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.56  | :x:                | 27 Jan 2019        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.54  | :x:                | 18 Sep 2018        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.52  | :x:                |                    | :white_check_mark: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS                                               |
| 0.9.50  | :x:                | 12 Dec 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.48  | :x:                | 09 Sep 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.46  | :x:                | 12 Jun 2017        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.44  | :x:                |                    |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.42  | :x:                | 22 Oct 2016        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.40  | :x:                | 09 Sep 2016        |                                                                                   |
| 0.9.38  | :x:                | 31 May 2016        |                                                                                   |
| <0.9.38 | :x:                | Before 05 Feb 2016 |                                                                                   |

Note: Even if a distribution version is still supported, it doesn't mean that
the individual package for firejail is well maintained. Be careful with older
distributions!

## Security vulnerabilities

We take security bugs very seriously.

If you believe you have found one, please report it to:

* <netblue30@protonmail.com>
